# Thorax-Disease-Detection-by-X-ray-Images

The Data-set can be downloaded from Kaggle "https://www.kaggle.com/nih-chest-xrays/data" 
# About Chest Diseases
Chest diseases are one of the most critical health problems people experience in the world. More than 0.92 million adults with pneumonia are hospitalized, with about 5000 dying each year in India alone. Chest x-ray images are the most general tool used to diagnose chest diseases, since their devices, in addition to making the patient exposed to little radiation, are also fairly low budget.Depending on the world health organization count, about two-thirds of the planet's community suffers from a lack of entry to radiation diagnosis. Even with the accessibility of the indispensable equipment for radiography, the experts who are able to interpret the x-rays are few, especially in the countryside, leading to an increase in the mortality rate of treatable diseases in many countries. So initial recognition and treatment should be available to prevent complications of pneumonia that may lead to death. Studying and distinguishing Chest X-ray images may be an entry-level task for radiologists but, in fact it is a compounded reasoning problem which often requires thoughtful review and good knowledge of anatomical principles, physiology and pathology. Such factors increase the obstacles of developing a consistent and automated technique for reading chest X-ray images while simultaneously considering all common thoracic diseases.
The thorax, also called chest, is the upper part of the trunk located between the neck and the abdomen. It gets support from the rib cage, the girdle of the shoulder and the spine that also protects it. It is the region of the body formed by the sternum, the thoracic vertebrae, and the ribs. It resides between the neck and diaphragm excluding the upper limb. The heart and lungs reside in the thoracic cavity, as well as many blood vessels which play a vital role in feeding (oesophagus), breathing, and pumping the blood
to all parts of the body.

